[MUSIC]
Now that you've had the chance to
implement a baseline environmental
perception stack, we present to you
our solution for the final project for
this course.
In this video, we will walk through
the solutions required to complete
all the graded functions
in the assessment.
Let's begin with the first task required
to complete the final assessment,
ground plane estimation.
To estimate the ground plane, the x,
y, and z coordinates of every pixel
in the scene need to be estimated.
We start by first implementing the x,
y from depth function.
This function takes as input the depth map
and the calibration metrics, k, provided
by the data set handle, and outputs the x,
y coordinates of every pixel in the scene.
The z coordinate of every pixel is drawn
from the depth map value itself so
the function does not need
to compute this quantity.
First, we grab the focal length and
the camera center parameters
from the calibration matrix.
Then, we create a grid of u and v
coordinates for every pixel in the image.
It is also possible to simply iterate
over every pixel in the depth map, but
the array structure simplifies storage and
processing instructions.
Third, we use NumPy's broadcasting
functionality to estimate and
return x and y coordinates of every
pixel in the scene over the u,
v grid using the equations provided
in the Jupyter Notebook and videos.
To test the function, we use a few
test points in frame zero, and
notice that we arrive at
the correct results for each point.
Now that we have the x, y, and
z coordinates of every pixel in the scene,
we can get the x, y, and
z coordinates of pixels belonging to the
road using semantic segmentation outputs.
The code for this is provided for you.
After that, we implement RANSAC to
estimate the plain parameters in
the graded function RANSAC plane fit.
The function takes as input the x, y,
z point coordinates of pixels
belonging to the road.
The first step of RANSAC requires
setting the termination criteria.
We set the maximum number
of iterations to 100,
the minimum number of inliers to 45,000,
and
the distance threshold of a point to
be considered in inlier to 0.1 meters.
Then we begin the main RANSAC loop.
Inside the loop, we first choose 15 points
at random from the input to the function.
These 15 points are used to compute
a plane model using the provided function
computer_plane.
We then get the number of inliers using
the distance to the plane threshold.
And check if the number of inliers is
greater than the number of inliers in all
previous iterations to
update the inliers set.
Finally, we check our minimum number
of inliers termination criteria
to terminate if the number of inliers
is greater than the required threshold.
The function returns
a recomputed plane model
using all the points in
the best inlier set.
We now test our function and
conclude that we get values very
close to the expected results.
Now that the ground plane has been
estimated, we move on to lane boundary
estimation, again, using the output
from semantic segmentation.
As described in the Jupyter Notebook, the
first step is to determine lane boundary
proposals by detecting all lines
belonging to suspected lane boundaries.
We implement this within
the estimate lane lines function.
This function takes as an input
the semantic segmentation
output from the data handler.
And creates a new segmentation image
containing output of the classes belonging
to lane boundaries, such as lane markings,
curves, and sidewalks.
To estimate lane line proposals,
we can apply Canny edge detection,
followed by Hough
transform line estimation.
The output is then reshaped to guarantee
N x 4 output tensor dimensions.
Visualizing the output lane proposals,
we can see that the boundary
proposals contain horizontal lines.
Furthermore, there are 16
output line proposals.
However, looking at the image,
we can see only eight.
This means that there are redundant
lines that need to be merged.
Merging and
filtering need to be implemented
in the merge_lane_lines function.
The function takes as an input the lane
proposals estimated by the previous
function, filters out horizontal
lines based on their slope, and
then merges the remaining lines based
on their slopes and intercepts.
We define similarity thresholds for
the slope and
the intercepts to decide
which line should be merged.
In addition, horizontal lines in
the image space tend to have zero slope.
And so we determine a minimum slope
threshold under which lines are considered
too slanted to be part
of our lane boundaries.
The first step of implementing this
function is to compute this slope and
the intercept of all
the lines in the input.
Second, we filter out lines based
on the minimum slope threshold
to eliminate horizontal lines.
Third, we cluster the line using
the slope and intercept thresholds.
There are multiple ways to perform this
clustering that will result in the same
solution.
For each line in the set of lines,
we identified all other lines in the set
that fall within a slope threshold, and
then checked that the intercepts fall
within an intercept threshold as well.
Any lines that meet both conditions
are clustered and removed from the set.
Finally, we merge the clustered
proposals to get one line per cluster
by computing the cluster's mean,
slope, and intercept.
Visualizing the output of our function,
we can see that each lane boundary has
one line estimate associated with it.
Finally, we extend the lane boundary
to the extent of the drivable space
by implementing the provided function,
extrapolate lines, and
find the closest lines to
the center of the current lane.
The result is the left and
right lane boundaries of the current lane.
The final component required
to finish this assessment
is the computation of the distance to
impact with every object in the scene
using the output from
the object-detection algorithms.
However, the specific algorithm that
provides this output is not very precise.
As such, before estimating the depth
of the obstacles in the scene,
the output of the object
detection needs to be filtered
using the output from
semantics segmentation.
This is performed through the filter
detections by segmentation function.
This function takes as an input,
the initial detections and
the output from
the semantics segmentation.
It then iterates over every detection and
crops the segmentation output to pixels
located inside the detection bounding box.
The number of pixels with the same
category as the detection output is
counted, and
then normalized by the bounding box area.
Bounding boxes are finally filtered
out if the computed normalized count
is less than a threshold of 0.3.
This means that we
eliminate a bounding box if
less than a third of the bounding box area
is occupied by the predicted class pixels.
Visualizing the remaining bounding boxes,
we can see that
only the one fully containing a car
remains after the filtering process.
Finally, we need to write up a function
called find_min_distance_to_detection
to get the minimum distance to impact
with every object in the scene.
This function takes as an input the
filtered detections along with the x, y,
and z coordinates of all
pixels in the image.
During it's first step,
the distance is computed to each
pixel in the filtered detection.
Then the minimum distance in
each detection is computed to be
returned by the function.
Testing our function demonstrates that
we got the correct minimum distance
to impact.
This completes our discussion of the steps
needed to complete the final assessment.
Before we conclude, I recommend you take
the time to compare the approaches we
presented for tackling these tasks
versus what you have designed.
Let us know how you did it.
Congratulations, you have now
completed the final assessment for
the third course in our
self-driving cars specialization.
You should now be able to produce baseline
perceptions tasks that are capable of
guiding this self-driving car to
drive safely in its environment.
This is a critical skill for
aspiring self-driving car engineers, so
keep up the great work.
Remember that there is always more to
learn in this ever changing field.
[MUSIC]